[Music]
[Music]
ah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
so full of well good evening everybody
thanks for tuning in happy Tuesday to
you Tuesday night
revelations study hey I hope you're
enjoying it we're getting some good
feedback appreciate your comments and
and want to encourage you to participate
in the study tonight
it's a call-in live interactive excuse
me text in I should say live an
interactive study so we'll do some
questions and answers at the end like we
have in the previous weeks and I would
encourage you just text your questions
to seven six zero four eight seven
eighty eight ninety and we will do our
best to get as to as many questions as
we can tonight and I looking forward to
jumping into the study I'm gonna jump
right in because you know what we have a
just a an amazing section of scripture
to go into tonight it is phenomenal I
mean it is like mind-blowing is like
well there is filet mignon on the plate
tonight right I would say steak and
lobster but that's unco sure so we got
filet mignon on the table tonight just a
great meal and we're gonna jump in as we
do just kind of a little quick review of
what where we're at what we're doing
we're studying the seven letters to the
seven
urges and these seven letters were
written to seven geographical churches
there in modern-day Turkey Asia Minor
which is modern-day Turkey
these were churches that were planted by
the Apostle John
six of the seven were planted by the
Apostle John the author is John it's
about 95 96 AD when this was written and
there he is on the Isle of Patmos and
Jesus comes to him and gives him this
revelation of Jesus and these end times
events the the church age and then the
time of the last seven years on the
church on the earth so just an amazing
section of Scripture I just want to
remind you a couple of things as we
study these last week we looked at
Ephesus and Ephesus was the church that
lost their first love
yeah they had got into the routine of
doing serving the Lord and Jesus said
hey your service is great but you've
lost your first love and you've traded
that in for works and it's just a good
reminder to us that is Jesus first
letter to the church that he wants our
heart above all else he wants our first
love and as tonight we're gonna be
looking Lord willing at the next two
churches Smyrna and Pergamus and again
just a filet mignon meal set up ahead of
us why did Jesus choose these seven
churches just as a way of review number
one they were real physical churches
there in in Turkey as I mentioned and he
was writing to them to deal with issues
they were really facing so that was one
reason number two they deal with
attributes that all churches face so as
we study these we're gonna see like wow
this is important message to us I see
how that relates to us and their
attributes that all churches face and we
need to be instructed by these letters
even in each of the letters Jesus would
say this he who has an ear let him hear
what the Spirit says to the churches
plural so the letters are to all
churches thirdly its to all of us as
Christians all of us face these things
and and there's part of us who are like
Ephesus where we lose our first love and
tonight we're gonna look at Smyrna when
we go through trials and persecution
that's part of our lives and so each of
them have personal application for us as
a church and also personal application
for us as individual Christians and then
fourthly we looked at and we're gonna
see this really well tonight these
churches are in a specific order that
Chronicle church history from Pentecost
the birth of the church all the way
until the rapture of the church when
Jesus takes the church up into heaven
and the church age is finished it covers
the entire history chronologically of
church history seven periods of church
history so we're gonna look at that
tonight one other thing that I'll hit
just as review there's a common
structure to each of these seven letters
and that common structure is just good
to remember Lisa if you will put that
common structure slide up for me the
common structure is this there's an
address to the church in other words
it's to the church and Ephesus or to the
church in Smyrna there's a common
structure an address Jesus addresses the
church in each of the letters there's a
description of Jesus that was taken from
chapter one and it's an important
description we'll see again tonight how
that works out so each letter has the
description of Jesus
there's the commendation in each letter
Jesus gives them without a Boyd he says
hey I know I know your works and you can
always find those commendations by this
phrase I know you're to Ephesus it was
hey I know your works I know that you're
trying hard and he gives that
commendation fourthly there's a rebuke
nevertheless I have this against you as
generally how that starts out and
there's a rebuke in that too see he says
hey you're doing this well but I want
you to work on this and then fifthly
there's a command
a command to to improve and here's what
I want you to do in light of your
current situation and 6ly there's a
warning a warning that says hey no be
careful if you don't pay attention to
this here's what's gonna happen it's
kind of like you tell your teenager hey
if you don't get good grades you're
gonna get grounded and then you know
it's up to them right there's a warning
for it and then 7th there's a reward for
perseverance
hey just your reward they came well done
if you do this here's what's gonna
happen a great reward for perseverance
so hold on to those and we'll see if you
can find those in the letters to shmurda
and the letters to pergamus tonight that
we look into right now though let's pray
one more time and ask the Lord to speak
to us Lord we're so blessed to come just
before you tonight Lord and what a joy
for me to be able to meet with hundreds
from the church who are gathering online
to study your word and lord I ask that
you would have mercy on our frame and
that you would fill us all with your
spirit that we might do exactly what you
asked us to do he who has an ear to hear
let him hear what the Spirit says to the
church Lord this is our prayer tonight
may you make it so open our ears Lord
open our eyes we want to see you Jesus
we want to see you help us now we ask in
Jesus name Amen amen
we'll get your Bible open and turn to
Revelation and let's let me give you one
more review if I can in chapter 1 verse
19 and 20 just a super important couple
of verses that kind of set the theme
chapter 1 verse 19 he says write the
things which you have seen and just as a
reminder that was the image and the
vision of Jesus Christ that he had in
chapter 1 then he says write the things
which are present tense the things that
are happening now that's the church age
the letters to the seven churches and
then thirdly write the things which will
take place after this that's after the
church age that's
after four 3:22 in the book of
Revelation so there's the divine outline
of the book of Revelation the Emmitt the
vision of Jesus the things which are
chapter two and three the seven letters
to the seven churches and then the
things which will take place after the
church age chapters four through 22 and
then look what he says verse 20 the
mystery of the Seven Stars which you saw
in my right hand and the Seven golden
lampstands is this the seven stars are
the angels of the seven churches or the
messengers of the seven churches the
pastors of the seven churches we went
into that in-depth last week two weeks
ago I'm not going to go into it now but
these letters are written to the
pastor's of the church and the seven
lampstands what you saw are the seven
churches and so Jesus he said in Chapter
one I hold the Stars I hold the angels
in my right hand I hold the pastor's of
the church in my right hand and I'm
walking in the midst of the church I'm
walking in between the lampstand
and so comforting to know that Jesus is
walking in the midst of the church so
with that let's pick up to chapter two
verse eight right where we left off last
week and we're gonna be looking at the
Church of Smyrna and look what he says
he says and to the angel or to the
pastor of the Church of Smyrna write
these things says the first and the last
who was dead and who came to life
interesting description Jesus takes of
himself that's the description of Jesus
taken from chapter 1 an interesting
segment of it to take for this church I
was dead and I came back to life verse 9
I know your works I know your
tribulation I know your poverty but you
are rich I know the blasphemy of those
who say they are Jews but are not but
are a synagogue of Satan
yea instead of serving God's purposes
they're serving Satan's purposes there
they're not from my camp Jesus says
they're working for the enemy's camp
verse 10
do not fear any of those things which
you are about to suffer indeed
the devil is about to throw some of you
into prison that you may be tested and
you will have tribulation for 10 days be
faithful until death and I will give you
a crown of life Wow what's that no
deliverance for this church look what he
says you're gonna be thrown into prison
you might be tested hey B you're gonna
have tribulation look what he says be
faithful unto death and I will give you
a crown of life and here's the reward
that he gives that was the command
here's the reward that he gives he who
has an ear let him hear what the Spirit
says to the churches for he who
overcomes shall not be hurt by the
second death amazing man just one two
three four verses and so much is there
Smyrna represents a period of church
history that goes from 70 AD when
Jerusalem was burned to the ground by
Nero from 70 AD to 312 ad a a period of
just intense persecution on the church
and beginning with Nero you know crazy
Nero who burned down Rome he beheaded
Paul and he burned Christians ask
torches in his you know in his backyard
in his assists in his estate you know in
his kingdom he would like Christians on
fire he would dip them and in port are
on them and light them on fire and say
he'd ride on a chariot nakeds down the
street in his you know in his kingdom
and he would say all you Christians are
the light of the world and just laugh
with a diabolical life laugh and so
beginning with Nero and going although
they threw do Klayton there were these
this era 250 little more years of
intense persecution historians tell us
get this that over 5 million Christians
were persecuted during this time you see
Ephesus represents the the first century
Church and now Smyrna represents the
next period of church history where
there was intense persecution over five
million Christians martyred for their
faith they were fed to the Lions just
for sport they were wrapped they would
wrap Christians and animal skins you
know get the get fur from an animal and
then throw them into the Colosseum and
let wild dogs and tigers and lions
devour them just for sport the blood of
the martyrs is their stain in the
Colosseum's of Rome you can still see it
to this day and Christianity was birthed
in a sea of intense persecution and I
tell you what it is absolutely amazing
that the church survived much less
thrived in this intense persecution what
a crazy way for a church to be born what
a crazy way for a religion to be born
and here's what Jesus said though do you
remember he said I tell you what
on this rock Peter I will build my
church what rock was that the rock of
you are the Messiah the son of the
Living God on this rock I will build my
church and here's what Jesus said and
the gates of Hell will not be able to
prevail against it but I tell you what
during this period of church history boy
did they try Satan through everything he
could at the church to kill it and to
annihilate it and yet by God's power and
by God's grace it only grew it only
expanded it had exponential growth it it
it reached the ends of the earth it was
phenomenal it transformed the world and
I don't know how you explain that apart
from just a divine miracle and so look
at the description of Jesus that we see
here in verse eight here's what he says
these things says he who is the first
and the last who was dead and who came
back to life oh my gosh what an amazing
description of Jesus for this period of
church history
what an amazing section right he says
hey listen I wa I am the one who was the
first and the last I am the eternal God
I am in control and he says I know look
what he says here he says I know your
works I know your tribulation I know
your poverty I've experienced it I know
what it's like to be betrayed I know
what it's like to be mocked and
ridiculed I know what it's like to be
beaten I know what it's like to be
scourge with the cat-o'-nine-tails and
to endure intense physical punishment I
know what it's like to be crucified
imagine how those words would minister
to the Church of that era of time when
he says hey I know I know Jesus knows
what we're going through not only by his
omniscience that he knows everything but
he knows what hardship is like by
experience he says I know I know I know
what you're going through and how
incredible those words must have been
when we are facing hard times when we
are going through difficult times we
have a tendency to say God why why are
you allowing this to happen why is all
this taking place and oftentimes the
only answer we get is hey I am the first
and the last I am that I am
living God I am the one who has all
things into control and and I know I
know what you're going through I know I
know Jesus reminds them he says I was
dead and I came back to life and he's
reminding them that hey death is not the
end of the road there is life after
death and Christian I want to remind you
just what just this important truth life
is temporary we're all gonna die and yet
isn't it interesting we went around
every single day really not thinking
much of it we just think like oh yeah
this is this is everything this isn't
everything this isn't a temporary
assignment God put us on this earth for
a very short season for this purpose and
this purpose only to decide if you want
to be in an intimate relationship with
Jesus Christ or not that's why we are
here and he reminds the Smyrna he says
hey listen I am the the first and the
last I was dead and I came back to life
this life is temporary it's a vapor but
the next life it's eternal and it's so
important that we hold on to that and he
reminds the church hey look this isn't
all there is there's more look at the
culmination he gives this church he says
I know I know your works I know your
tribulation I know your poverty but you
are rich you might not have anything
here on earth but you are rich I there
are great rewards in heaven for you I
know the blasphemy of those who say that
they are Jews and they're not they're of
the synagogue of Heaven let's take a
look at some of these things he says I
know your tribulation that means you're
intense troubles and I know your poverty
what does that mean well here's what had
happened during this period of time Rome
instituted Emperor worship Emperor
worship and once a year all the citizens
of Rome would have to come and burn
incense and say Caesar is Lord for
whoever was the Emperor at that time is
Lord
it was once a year you could worship all
your other gods all the pantheon of gods
you could still worship but you had to
say that the Emperor was Lord and if you
didn't do that someone could turn you in
for not worshipping Caesar as Lord and
you know what happened Rome would take
all of your property everything that you
owned your business your house
your chariot your horses whatever you
had all of it would be confiscated by
Rome and they would give 50 percent of
it to the person who turned you in and
Rome would keep 50 percent as a tax and
you would lose everything all because
you wouldn't worship Caesar is Lord and
so Christians during this time were
being plundered and had all their goods
taken from them and he says I know your
tribulation and your poverty I know what
you're going through I know that you've
been stripped of your possessions it be
easy to compromise on that wouldn't it
to come in and just say yeah Caesar is
Lord say your thing keep your house and
then go on your way but these people had
seen the resurrected Jesus and they said
there's no way I'm doing and so they
lost everything
Hebrews by the way is a book that is
written that is dealing with these very
problems the entire book of Hebrews is
that this these hardships that they were
going going through and on Hebrews 10
verse 33 on your screens look what a
Paul wrote well I think it's Paul but he
writes to the to the Hebrews look what
he says sometimes you were exposed to
public ridicule and we're beaten and
sometimes you you helped others who were
suffering the same things you suffered
along with those who were thrown into
jail and when all you owned was taken
from you you accepted it with joy you
accepted it willingly instead of denying
the Lord let's go on the rest of the
verse you knew there were better things
waiting for you
that will last forever yeah here Paul
commends this church for what there
going through at this very time it's the
same thing that we're writing about here
in the Church of Smyrna severe trials
and you know what's interesting to this
church Jesus doesn't fix it
he just doesn't fix it he just says I
know I know your troubles I know what
you're going through I understand I too
have been persecuted but he doesn't fix
it he just says I know I tell you what
man read Psalm 22 and read where Jesus
speaking firsthand from the cross it's a
prophecy given from Jesus position on
the cross and he says what you just
talked about first person of what he was
going through all my bones are stretched
out of joint
my heart melts like wax within me I
watched them as they were they wag their
heads as they mock me I'm an intense
pain I'm dying of thirst I mean you read
it first
it's firsthand Jesus on the cross and
you'll go wow he knows he knows what
we're going through same with the Isaiah
53 and it's interesting that Jesus
doesn't fix the problem he just says I
know what you're going through
there's no rebuke for this church and I
find that interesting there's only one
other church that has no rebuke that's
the Church of Philadelphia all five
other churches and the seven letters
have have some rebuke some instructions
some things they have to do differently
and the church in Smyrna has no rebuke
and you know what I find interesting
about that is that persecution weeds out
carnal Christianity persecution weeds
out carnal Christianity but you know
what else is true prosperity breeds
carnal Christianity you see when you're
being persecuted yeah there's there's
just a purity of your walk you're not
worried about small little things you
know what I know for sure there was no
gossip going on in the Church of Smyrna
there was no factions going on in
Church of Smyrna there was no one
missing a prayer meeting in the Church
of Smyrna everyone was showing up for a
mission group in the church at Smyrna
nobody was like hey I'm busy today I'm
gonna skip Church in the Church of
Smyrna its carnal Christianity that
breeds that and if prosperity that
breeds carnal Christianity interesting
how it works
carnal Christians are more often
consumed with their job in their house
and their vacation plans and their hurt
feelings from what so-and-so said to me
the last time I was at church I can't
believe they said that to me yeah that
just happens when our eyes are on our
self but you know what happens when
we're persecuted when we're persecuted
where are our eyes Church where are our
eyes our eyes are on Jesus and we you
know we're not looking at ourselves
we're saying lord I need I need your
spirit today to make it through the day
and it's interesting how there's
strength that comes from it it's just an
interesting thing and there's no rebuke
to this church look at the exportation
he gives in verse 10 to this church look
at it with me verse 10 do not fear any
of those things which are about you're
about to suffer indeed the devil is -
about to throw you into prison that you
may be tested and you will have
tribulation 10 days be faithful unto
death and I will give you a crown of
life and once again the Almighty God
offers no deliverance and but here's the
cool thing when God doesn't deliver us
from the fire here's the really cool
thing he walks with us in the fire and
he just tells him he says hey look I'm
with you and this I'm with you in this
history records a fascinating story of a
man by the name of Polycarp easy name to
remember because it's so it's so unique
Polycarp Polycarp was the pastor of
Smyrna you know who he was discipled by
he was discipled by John the Apostle
John and Polycarp became the pastor of
Smyrna
and he was the man that was used
mightily by God and ultimately he was
burned at the stake for his faith in
Jesus Christ by the Roman Emperor Marcus
Aurelius Marcus Aurelius burned him at
the stake and there's a fascinating
fascinating story in foxes Book of
Martyrs on his life this was right from
foxes Book of Martyrs if you haven't
read it by the way I'd recommend you do
it's a it's a it's an easy read this is
from foxes Book of Martyrs Roman Emperor
Marcus Aurelius ordered polycarp's
execution
Polycarp escaped and hid in a house to
get away from the persecution but a
child saw Polycarp and to turn him in
and when the Roman guards came to arrest
him Polycarp made a feast for all the
Roman guards the Roman guards find out
where he's at Polycarp hides he doesn't
want to get killed he hides in a house
and the Roman guards come for him when
they come
Polycarp somehow heard they were coming
and he has this giant feast for them so
they come in and he all the guards he
serves in this giant feast and after
feasting he asked the guards you know
they say hey come on I got to take you
to the Emperor he says can I have one
hour in prayer before I'm taken to be
martyred can I just have one hour in
prayer and history records that
polycarp's prayer was so profound so
rich that many of the this the guards
who came to take him repented and got
saved and so he praised with such
fervency it was just amazing after the
prayer he willingly went with the guards
to stand before the proconsul the
proconsul to be condemned and to be
burnt in the marketplace and the
proconsul then urged him saying swear
and I will release the reproach Christ
this is straight out of foxes Book of
Martyrs reproach
then I will release thee and listen to
polycarp's answer Polycarp answered
eighty and six years I have served him
speaking of Jesus and he never once
wronged me how then shall I blasphemy my
King who has saved me and so they tied
him to the stake and they set it on fire
and history records that when they lit
the stake on fire the flames went up in
an arch all around his body and Polycarp
wasn't hurt
the chief executioner ordered that
Polycarp be speared and it says I'll
just read to you out of foxes Book of
Martyrs the flames encircled his body
like an arch without touching him and
the executioner on seeing this was
ordered to pierce him with a sword when
they did so the blood and the the blood
came out so much that it extinguished
the flames and I won't go on and read
all of it but the his his blood from the
from the wound went out and put out the
flames of the fire and just an amazing
story this is in foxes Book of Martyrs
but it's another church history it said
that for whatever reason when he was
speared that a fragrance went up instead
of a stench a fragrance went up that was
a sweet smelling fragrance that would
just everybody there was like wow just
amazing just amazing and so what an
amazing story and again Polycarp the
pastor of this church just amazing to
see what this is this is what's
fascinating about this the name Smyrna
is the Greek word of the Hebrew word
myrrh Smyrna is the Greek word of myrrh
and myrrh as you know was the one of the
gifts that the wise men brought to Jesus
right gold frankincense and myrrh and
you know what was used for it was used
for embalming and what's fascinating is
how it was made
myrrh is an expensive just
really sweet-smelling fragrant perfume
that was made from the crushing of
coma forea trees crushing the bark of
coma foria trees and this brownish red
resin would come out from crushing this
bark and it was myrrh and just smelled
beautifully and that by chance is the
name of this church the church in Smyrna
and so what an amazing history that is
here's my question what if Jesus told
you be faithful unto death could you
endure it could you endure that kind of
instruction I don't know if I could to
be honest and I think if we were all
honest you know what I was this is
embarrassing to say it really is it's
really humiliating to tell you how how
foolish I was as a young Christian when
I was a young Christian that I started
learning about the tribulation period I
remember praying Lord if you want me to
go through the tribulation period so I
could be a witness for you and that I'd
be willing to do it
what a foolish prideful arrogant thing
to say right just amazing I know now
that unless the Lord and gives me his
spirit there's no way I'll make it
through a torn toenail much less a
tribulation period like that like the
seven-year tribulation period Corrie ten
Boom was a you know the boom family was
used really instrumentally and in saving
a lot of Jews from the Holocaust and and
hiding Jews and that kind of thing and
she asked her dad one time she said dad
I don't know if I have enough faith to
be a martyr and she was just a young
girl watching her dad do all this work
putting their whole family at risk to
save the Jews she said daddy I don't
know if I have enough faith to be a
martyr and Corrie ten booms father
wisely said Corrie honey when you take
the train to Amsterdam when do I give
you the money for the ticket she says
right before I get on the train he says
well that's the same way your heavenly
father works if you have to go through
hardship he gives you the strength right
when you need it
to go through the hardship and I tell
you what church there is no greater
manifestation of the Holy Spirit living
in us than when we suffer wrong
wrongfully and accept it joyfully before
the Lord accept it graciously and it
really bugs me about the prosperity
teachers of our day who tell us that
Jesus doesn't want us to suffer and you
know what suffering comes from they tell
us what a suffering come from not having
enough what faith oh if you're suffering
you must have not had enough faith that
is a lie from the pit of hell and they
say name it and claim it right just blab
it and grab it and you got a year's got
a believe that's just here look what
Jesus says here he says hey look there's
not going to be any deliverance there's
not going to be any deliverance and it's
so important that we don't embrace that
false teaching a prosperity teacher
prosperity teachers Jesus says you will
have tribulation ten days and we don't
know for sure what that ten days is but
it is interesting and most scholars
believe that it represents ten eras or
ten periods of Roman persecution under
10 Roman emperors and it just so happens
that's exactly how many there are
I've got a screen for you that lists all
the the ten Roman emperors if you want
get your phone out real quick and take a
picture of that because it's not going
to be on there too long but there's the
ten periods of Roman persecution
starting with Nero in 64 to 68 you know
an ad and going all the way that was the
time of Nero's reign by the way and then
going all the way through Dai Oakley and
I Oh Clayton by far the worst of the
Roman empires and you'll see there's 10
of them Nero killed Peter he beheaded
Paul Domitian was horrible at Rajon
outlawed Christianity all the way down
you can see the names there I wanted to
have pictures of all those guys up there
with you know their busts but I didn't
have time to I ran out of time to make
it for you but that's what we believe
that
days of persecution that Jesus is
talking about you're gonna have ten
periods of persecution and again over
five million Christians were martyred
during that time and millions more
plundered for their goods plundered you
know lost all their goods and those kind
of things
persecution is the most dominant
characteristic of this period of church
history between 70 AD and 312 ad and yet
with all that persecution the church was
born and the church spread the gospel of
Jesus Christ throughout the whole earth
even under severe critic ution and if
you're a skeptic and somehow you're
watching this tonight I would just have
to ask you to the skeptic hey take take
the time to take a look at this because
here's the truth of it to anybody who
bothers to take a look this is almost an
impossible way for a religion to begin
and by human appraisal the odds of
Christianity making it to the next
generation we're just insurmountable and
yet 2,000 years later here we are doing
a live stream broadcast in the midst of
a coronavirus and the church is still
thriving today how do you explain that
and it just beyond beyond comprehension
right and so here's the application for
us may we not worry so much about
hardship about persecution about trials
church history has proven that
prosperity is far more dangerous to the
Christian than hardship and so may we
not be discouraged if we're going
through hard times knowing that God uses
it to build us and to grow us and just
an amazing section of Scripture so we've
seen Ephesus
the church up until about you know about
the first century and now we've seen
pergamus the church from 7080 to 3:12
and now we're gonna look at excuse me
Smyrna the church from 70 to 312 and now
we're gonna look at pergamus
pergamus just an interesting church let
me give you the background before we
read this next section if I can here's
the background on pergamus pergamus was
a wealthy city just like Ephesus it was
a very prosperous city and it was
situated in a very pagan part of of the
of the town right Pergamus was just a
really pagan city with all kinds of
idolatry and gods they had the temple of
zeus in Pergamus and the temple of zeus
was one of the seven wonders of the
world at that time number three on the
list of the seven wonders of the world
it was famous people would travel from
all over the known world to come and
look at it it was a five-story giant
statue of zeus it was built in 435 BC so
at the time you know this was it was
already 500 years old approximately at
the time of the book of Revelation and
in Greek mythology Zeus is the father of
all gods right
and all mortal heroes as well and all
day long at this giant five-story statue
of zeus was these offerings being made
and a giant smokestack going up just
with the smoke of these sacrifices that
were offered to zeus and like I said
people came from all over to see it how
many of you liked the Olympics by the
way loved the Olympics right so much fun
to watch are you a summer Olympic person
or a Winter Olympic person but the
Olympics started to celebrate and to
honor Zeus in Greece and they were
started here in Pergamus at this place
and they were held every four years to
celebrate and honor Zeus and so here we
have this church pergamus plopped right
in the thick of all this idolatry and
all this wickedness that's around and
the church is plopped right in the
middle of it let's take a look at
pergamus in verse 12 chapter 2 verse 12
to the angel of the church in Pergamos
write these things says he who has the
sharp two-edged sword oh there's our
description of Jesus the sharp two-edged
sword what is that well that's the sword
that's in his mouth it's the Word of God
all scripture is living and powerful and
a sharper than any two-edged sword it's
the Word of God and we read in
Revelation that Jesus has this sword in
his mouth right it's this it's the Word
of God that comes out of his mouth and
it represents what the Word of God does
to us what does the Word of God do well
it brings comfort and it also brings
judgment it's sharp on both sides it
says hey I love you and I'm for you and
it says hey now you better deal with
this seriously right it does both it's a
sharp two-edged sword the same sword in
Jesus mouth that says well done good and
faithful servant is the same sword that
says depart from me I never knew you one
side is a tremendous blessing the other
side is a scary judgment and the imagery
that Jesus uses for this church the
imagery of himself is hey be careful I'm
the one who has the sharp two-edged
sword look at verse 13 I know your works
and where you dwell and where Satan's
throne is interesting notice the praise
that Jesus gives the church this is
fascinating to me this is the praise
section he could we have the description
of Jesus and then we have us
commendation right like here's what I'm
proud of you guys about he says I know
your works and I know that you dwell
where Satan's throne throne is Jesus
praises there this church further
strategic position he praises this
church for being right in the thick of
it man right in the midst of all this
idolatry for proclaiming the gospel of
Jesus Christ in enemy territory where
Satan's throne
is Jesus says I love that way to go
Church we often want to huddle in our
little Christian circles and Jesus says
no no no well here's what I really love
I love it when you go out there and you
hang out and you dwell with when you
plan a church right in the middle of a
city that needs Jesus I am so thrilled
that the Lord is bringing this building
to us that we have the opportunity to
buy this building we're in escort right
now right on Carlsbad Village Drive
where everybody comes to have a good
time in Carlsbad hey here's what Jesus
says well done man I know you're right
in the center of idolatry way to go I
love that and church I would just say be
careful man we often neuter ourselves
when we only talk about Jesus when we
only tell people about Jesus if we see
first that they're Christians
oh is that a cross are you a Christian
oh I'm a Christian otherwise I was gonna
be quiet or we only talk about Jesus
when we're at church
hey at work is the place where we ought
to be talking about Jesus on the
basketball court is the place we ought
to be talking about Jesus at the kids
soccer game right pray with your child
let everybody see it before you get on
not so you can be seen but so that you
just let your light shine and Jesus he
commends this church for being there in
the thick of idolatry and wickedness he
says way to go that's the same thing
that Jesus said we're studying it on
Sundays and say I want you to be the
salt and the light you know I want you
to be he says you don't light a lamp and
hide it under the bed no no no you light
a lamp and you put it up to give light
everywhere and that's what I want you to
be and Jesus has more commendation for
this church look what he says he says
you hold fast to my name and you did not
deny my faith what does that mean what's
that mean you hold fast to my name well
here's what it means for this church
we're gonna see they let a lot of wrong
false doctrine come in we're gonna see
in just a minute but here's what they
held on to they always kept salvation by
Jesus and Jesus alone no other name
under heaven where man can be
and he says you've held fast to my name
you haven't denied my faith you've
always kept him salvation about by faith
in Jesus and that's a great thing
and he says you hold fast my name you
did not deny my faith even in the days
when Antipas was my faithful martyr who
was killed among you where Satan dwells
I don't have anything to tell you
they're about Antipas we just don't know
who he is he's an anonymous martyr
unknown to humans but very known to
Jesus and I love that and her we're
gonna see this church is gonna have some
real problems as we're gonna see but
here's what Jesus is saying even in the
midst of this corrupt Church I've got my
guys I've got my guys and they're
unknown to everybody but they're known
to me I know who they are and I love
that first fourteen here's the review
kit he gives this church and it's a
harsh rebuke it's powerfully written -
and here we're gonna see a just a real
clear idea of how Jesus uses symbols to
reveal a depth of information I have a
few things against you because you have
there
those who hold the doctrine of Balaam
who taught Balak to put a stumbling
block before the children of Israel to
eat things that were sacrificed to act
to idols and to commit sexual immorality
wow there is a lot there do you remember
who Balaam was Balaam was a prophet of
God and he was hired by a king the
king's name was Balak and here's what
was happening
Balak was a a Gentile king and the the
the Jewish people Israel with Moses
Moses was coming in with all the
Israelites and Balak was afraid that
Israel was going to take over his
kingdom and so we
is Balaam to curse God's people and he
says Balaam I'm a really rich King man
I'm gonna give you a ton of money I'm
gonna give you a ton of power
I'm gonna give you Fame and notoriety I
just need you to curse God's people and
Balaam was so tempted by it he tries to
go any curse curse God's people and if
you read it all he can do is pronounce a
blessing and he finally comes back to
Balak and he just wanted the money so
bad he says hey King listen I can't
curse God's people because God is God
wants to bless his people isn't that
great to know God won't curse his people
God wants to bless his people but here's
what Balak Balaam told Balak he said
Balaam listen excuse me King Balak
listen this is what Balaam said he said
if you get your little Moabite girls and
you get them to come down to the
Israelite men and you get them to seduce
them and have sexual relations with them
and say this is how we worship our
Moabite gods with these sexual fertility
rites then God will bring judgment on
his own people
I can't curse them but God will bring
judgment on them and so King Balak did
what Balaam told him and sure enough all
the guys went after the little Moabite
girls and sure enough that's what
happened and God brought judgment on
Israel and thousands died at the hand of
God's judgment and so this is an
interesting story it's a picture he says
look what he says you have there in the
church those who hold the doctrine of
Balaam the doctrine of Balaam what is it
it's using religion for personal gain
for personal wealth you see Balaam got
this religious leader he got all the
money from King Balak he got the biggest
state from get King Balak he and he
inherited a ton of land he got all kinds
of wealth
by bringing destruction on God's people
using religion for personal gain and
here to this church Jesus says you have
in the church those who are using
religion for personal gain here's how it
happened the church had been persecuted
as we've already looked and through
through Smyrna 1010 periods of church
persecution lasting nearly 300 years in
312 ad the Emperor Constantine
supposedly had a vision he was going out
to battle and he saw a sign in the sky
supposedly that said in this sign
conquer and he saw a picture of the
cross in this in the sky and in the sign
conquer in other words you're going to
have tremendous victory over your
battles if you do it in the name of
Jesus Christ and so Constantine
converted to Christianity I personally
questioned the conversion Constantine
was having if you read history was
having a lot of problems because
Christianity was spreading even under
intense persecution it was spreading
like wildfire that you know all of Rome
was becoming Christian and Constantine
couldn't get soldiers in his military
and the moment that he became Christian
he made he made Christianity the state
religion in the Edict of Milan in 313 ad
Constantine makes Christianity the state
religion and overnight the church goes
from being persecuted for almost 300
years to now being the state religion
and crazy things begin to happen the
church at that time begin to I can't
change my page the church began at that
time to to really turn the wrong
direction and what you would think what
would appear to be a
huge blessing like wow no more
persecution
now it's state law right Christianity
through Rome it turned out to be a curse
not a blessing under persecution the
church thrived but when the church
became a government program you know
what happened the church became polluted
and corrupt our founding fathers wanted
to separate church and state not for the
sake of saying that you can't have
Christianity in government but from say
for the fact of saying government can't
run Christianity can't run the church
because of what they learn from history
and here Rome became the the controlling
arm of the church and it was disastrous
government became the leaders of the
church and if you were in the military
you had to get about baptised
Constantine had thousands of so you know
he baptized him he had thousands of
soldiers right on horseback through a
lake with a priest standing there just
as they would ride through in masses
yeah that's not how baptism works if you
were a baby born in Rome it was law you
had to be baptized and you know what
happened pagan priests there was all
these you know all these pagan priests
for all these different for the Greek
pantheon and all the paganism that was
there hundreds and hundreds and
thousands of pagan priests you know at
the Temple of Zeus and Athena and all
those different things all those priests
became Christian pastors overnight so
they could keep their jobs and
corruption just came into the church
pagan priests suddenly became Christian
priests and idols of Zeus and Athena and
everything else were replaced with idols
of Mary and all the saints and church
leadership began to be a position of
political power and church hierarchy
began to develop within the bishop
the Bishop of Rome and the the church
became to be a political government
structure that all the power was in and
it became really polluted and corrupt
and Jesus called it the doctrine of
balaam using religion for property for
wealth for power for fame for governing
isn't that an amazing picture how
prophetic these words write how
prophetic it's during this time if you
know anything about church history at
all it's during this time that the the
practice of simony came into place and
if you don't know what simony is I only
wish we had time to go into it now we
don't but if you do if you look it up
and see some of the gross perversions
that that happened under simony simony
is the selling of a church office for up
for for money you see a church being a a
bishop became a real position of
political power and it became very
little to do about God it became just a
position of power and so they would sell
these offices in the church and it was
called Simon II false doctrines begin to
arise and apostolic succession began to
come you know that's where the the Pope
is tied back to Peter in its apostolic
succession and unless you're in this
lynnie
hey it's all a scam it's not real and
I'm not attacking the crit the Catholic
Church I'm just talking about what
happened in church history this is what
happened in church history and I want it
just as a defense to the Catholic Church
say there is some good stuff the
Catholic Church has done so I'm not
attacking them right now but just a
horrible time for church history look at
verse 15 look what he says not only is
there the doctrine of balaam using
religion for personal gain but look at
verse 15 thus you also have those who
hold to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans
which thing I hate the doctrine of the
Colio tonie's what is the doctrine of
the Nicolaitans Nicolaitans there's
really no word for it in the Greek it's
a made-up word and it's a word that
comes from two different words nação
which means victory it's where we get
our our word nike a little swoosh on
your tennis shoe the victory swoosh
comes from nação it's victory
Nicolaitans Nicko victory and Leyte
meaning the people the common people and
it's victory over the lady or in other
words the priesthood authority over the
common people and he says you have there
not only do you have the doctrine of
balaam but you and else you have you
have this priesthood authority that's
over the people governing them ruling
over them having victory over them and
just using them he says I hate that
be careful Jesus says I hate that kind
of leadership and I want you to know
pastor JC and I and the leaders of the
mission Church the elders who serve at
the church we take this to heart we
understand this teaching there is no
pastor clergy division at this church we
are all brothers and sisters in Christ
and Jesus says I hate that doctrine of
the Nicolaitans you'll remember in the
Church of Ephesus in the first letter he
says it was one of the things he
commended the church for he says you
hate those who practice the the doctrine
of the Nicolaitans in other words you
drive it out that's what happened in
Ephesus but now here by this time in
history now the church had fully
embraced this priesthood authority over
the people interesting by the way what's
the name of this church what is it it's
the Church of what pergamus do you know
what pergamus means just fascinating
just the divine wisdom of God just
amazing pergamus means / meaning mixed
and gamo smeeting Mary
it means a mixed marriage gamo swear we
get our word monogamy polygamy meaning
marriage it's per mixed gamos marriage
it's a mixed marriage it's marrying the
world with the church it's marrying
human kingdoms with the church its myths
its merit its marrying government and
political power with the church it's
marrying idolatry with the church it's a
mixed marriage and it's perverted it's
perverted what a horrible thing
Satan shifted gears didn't he he shifted
gears from persecuting the church which
he tried for nearly 300 years and the
church only grew and he finally gave up
after dial Klayton and then he says you
know what I'm gonna join the church and
I'm gonna use Constantine to do it and
Satan went from persecuting the church
to joining the church radical radical do
you know that many of the traditions
that we practice today as Christians
come from this period of church history
where pagan traditions were assimilated
into Christianity have you ever wondered
where we get some of the traditions that
we have in the Christian Church why do
we have Easter eggs at Easter what does
a Easter Egg and a bunny rabbit have to
do with the resurrection of Jesus Christ
answer absolutely nothing and yet we
call the resurrection of Jesus Christ
Easter do you know why here's what
Easter means Easter was the gut the the
pagan god aster the goddess of fertility
and her symbol was the egg and the bunny
represents you know rapid reproduction
right sexual activity and
somehow in this time when these pagan
priests they used to be celebrating
Ashtar and now they tie it into the same
holiday as the resurrection of Jesus
Christ and now we have Easter a tied to
the resurrection of Jesus Christ
and the same thing is true with the
Christmas tree cow Moos was a Babylonian
God and I wish I had time to go in I'm
looking at the clock we don't but that's
how we get a a Christmas tree at
Christmas it was tying in these pagan
traditions with Christian worship and
it's Pergamus it's a bad marriage man
it's a mixed marriage and this church
committed adultery on Jesus it's a bad
marriage
so Pergamus represents a period in
church history where paganism and
Christianity married together it's the
4th century through the 6th century it's
a just a sad time it really is you know
just a dark period in church history and
I would say here's the application for
us
be careful Church be careful Christian
because subtle compromise is one of
Satan's most effective tools on a
Christian persecuting the church did
nothing but getting him to have these
subtle compromises brought in just
destruction to the church and impurity
into the church and I tell you what we
are being inoculated today by compromise
you know we watch TV in the name of
entertainment and we watch murder and we
watch sexual you know immorality and we
watch infidelity and adultery and and
you know all kinds of things and we're
just as inoculated to it because we call
it entertainment and and we just see
what a mixed marriage does when we just
compromise dangerous may we hold fast
may we hold fast I want to leave you
with these last couple verses in this
look at this we'll wrap up with this
look what he says here is Jesus
instruction to this church he says
repent
or else I will come to you quickly and I
will fight against them with the sword
of my mouth wow there's that sharp
two-edged sword
who's the them by the way those are the
leaders in the church who hold on to the
doctrine of Balaam and to the doctrine
of the Nicolaitans Jesus says I will
come personally and fight against those
who hold on to those two doctrines with
the sword of my mouth and you know what
Jesus said this he said many will come
to me in that day and say hey wasn't I
up priest wasn't I of this wasn't I that
and he'll say depart from me I never
knew you as he comes to them with a
sword of his mouth verse 17 he who has
an ear let him hear what the Spirit says
to the churches
to him who overcomes I will give him
some of the hidden manna to eat circle
hidden manna there I wish I had time to
develop it with you but let me just say
let me tell you what that is I'll give
you some of the hidden manna to eat you
know what it is
it's Jesus it's a personal relationship
a personal intimacy with Jesus Jesus
said when that when when he fed 5,000
they came to him and said hey your
father's gave us manna that what are you
gonna do for us right and Jesus says I
am the manna I am the bread of life and
when Jesus says I will give them the
hidden manna here's what he's saying
he's saying hey listen if you overcome
if you don't give in to this compromise
and this corruption and getting a mixed
marriage with the world here's what's
going to happen I'll give you some of
the hidden manna I'll give you the
personal revelation of me the intimacy
with me not just a knowledge of me not
an intellectual head knowledge of me but
a personal intimacy with me and look at
this I will give him the hidden manna
and I will give him a white stone on it
and on the stone a new
name written which no one knows except
him who receives it what is that well in
John's day judgment was done with a
white and a black stone and if you got
the white stone it means you were
acquitted if you got the black stone and
that you were guilty and you were judged
that's where the term black balled comes
from right and and here's what Jesus
says he says hey even if you're in this
corrupt perverse mixed marriage here's
what he says repent and he who overcomes
I will give him a white stone not guilty
with a new name on it a new name yeah
instead of Pergamus monogamous instead
of corrupt pure instead of unrighteous
righteous a new name intimacy with Jesus
what an incredible promise to this
church even in the midst of all its
corruption man just powerful powerful
section I know we went a little long
thanks for hanging in there with me
we'll get into your questions and see if
we can answer them now powerful section
though and hey maybe like the Church of
Pergamus you're finding yourself and
maybe just like them you too are too
caught up in the world right now I would
encourage you take this letter to heart
the results for pergurt the church and
programmers were devastating but take a
look at what Jesus says Jesus says hey
overcome come to me come to me and I
will give you a white stone I will make
you not guilty I'll give you a new name
it's never too late to come back to
Jesus and then may we may we do that
with our hearts may we just stay pure
may we be the church it says I don't
want to compromise maybe you have HBO
and you've been watching some things or
just hey right now you can say I repent
man I'm just canceling my HBO
subscription and just no more that filth
man no more maybe you've had a mixed
marriage with alcohol you can cancel
right now and say Lord I'm Yours man I'm
not no more mixed marriage
for me maybe you've given over to
whatever and you can just say hey no I'm
done I want a white stone I want a new
name I want I want that hidden man I
want that I want to know Jesus I'd
encourage you pray that to him right now
just wherever you are pray that to him
and now we're going to go into the
questions if it looks like we have some
should we hope for or even pray for
persecution JC is that you oh that's
funny
[Music]
should we hope for or even pray for
persecution yeah I would say absolutely
not
here's what we know God is a good father
right and he knows what the what the
child needs a good father knows what
kind of discipline a child needs but
there's no need to pray for persecution
instead pray for a soft heart that
doesn't need persecution to bring
repentance to it in in proverbs the
Bible says God speaking he says don't be
like the stubborn mule that only turns
because it has a bridle in its mouth
I want to guide you with my eye God
speaking what does that mean
it means God saying hey look the donkey
it doesn't turn because it loves you
the donkey turns because you have the
reins and it has a bit on its mouth and
when you pull on the rein it pushes that
bit into the donkey's mouth of the
donkey goes out chin it turns because
you're forcing it and God says don't be
like the stubborn donkey that only turns
when I inflict pain and then God says I
want to guide you with my eye so instead
of praying for persecution pray that you
would lord help me to keep my eyes on
you help me to hear your small still
voice help me to be in tune with your
Holy Spirit that I might live a life
just you know in harmony with what
you're doing here's another question
well is this another Cooper question JC
I need to know is that is that your dad
did he text that in here's what it says
should we want America's government to
favor Christianity from Denny see Denny
Cooper I think should we want America's
government to favor Christianity I'm not
sure what the question is should we want
America's government to favor
Christianity well well yes I mean I'm
really thankful that this we live in a
country that was founded on Christian
principles the Declaration of
Independence we declare that this to be
evident to all that I'm thinking of Joe
Biden right now that you know the thing
right no that man was endowed with
certain and ailable rights to pursue
life and liberty and the pursuit of
happiness right like we've been I love
the the Declaration of indepen endowed
by our Creator within an alien rights to
pursue life liberty and the pursuit of
happiness so yes we should you know we
should want America's government to be a
Christian godly government that is you
know allowing the church to thrive and
allowing the church to meet in seeing
the church as essential very important
I'm very thankful for the the tax breaks
that the church gets and the tax
donations that come in and and
tax-deductible donations that come in
and this this this this count this
country was founded on the the precept
of the church doing the welfare system
of the land not the government and so
anyway a long answer but but yeah here's
another question what is the Antichrist
and is there only one or are there many
from Robert l what is the Antichrist and
is there only one or are there many well
there are many Antichrist with a little
a Antichrist doesn't mean what most
Christians think they think it does it
doesn't mean against Christ Antichrist
means instead of Christ and so there are
many Antichrist right you might have
some Antichrist in your life you might
have some things that you are
worshipping instead of Christ David
Koresh was an antichrist right he
claimed to be a figure figure of the
Messiah right but he was a little
Antichrist right and there's been
hundreds and thousands of them first
John says hey there are many Antichrist
in the world so you can read 1st through
3rd John and see that but there is
coming the Antichrist who will be
different and the Antichrist will be a a
man who is in dwelled by Satan and we're
gonna see this when we get into the you
know further along in the book of
Revelation we're gonna see that Satan is
actually cast out of heaven right now
Satan still has access to heaven and
I'll explain that more in the weeks to
come if we Lord willing
but right now Satan has access to heaven
in the book of Job God asks Satan hey
where have you been give a report of
what you're doing and Satan says well
I've been going here I've been going
there to and fro among the earth and
coming back and he's reporting to God in
heaven right
he's as well have you considered my
servant job so there's going to be a
time at the time that the church is
raptured Satan is cast out of heaven and
the Bible says woe to the inhabitants of
the earth reveled the book of Revelation
is woe to the habitants of Earth because
Satan has been cast down to it the
accuser of the Brethren accuses the
Brethren night and day
and he is fierce and he's because he
knows his time is short and so he comes
onto the earth and the first thing he
does is he and dwells in a man and it's
a he actually he's a man possessed by
Satan and that man will be the
Antichrist and he comes on the scene not
against Jesus but he comes on the scene
as a type of Jesus and the book of
Revelation describes him as coming in on
a white horse just like Jesus does so
he's a he's an imposter he's an imitator
of Jesus and he comes bringing peace and
bringing prosperity and uniting all the
religions of the world together as well
as in in unity and a one-world religion
you know everything is okay if you're a
Hindu no problem if you're a Muslim no
problem if you're a see Sikh no problem
we can bring them all together and it's
all the same God anyway and he comes in
and he unites all these things so he
appears to be a religious leader but
he's instead of Christ he's he's not the
real one do you remember Jesus on Palm
Sunday as he was riding into Jerusalem
on the donkey he said o Israel o Israel
how often I wanted to gather you as a
hen gathers her chicks under her wings
but you were not willing and that you
would not recognize this your day a
visitation you didn't recognize that it
was the Messiah among you you didn't
recognize it was God with you and he
said I came in my father's name and you
did not receive me
there is another coming in his own name
and him you will receive and that was a
reference jesus saying to this
Antichrist who comes onto the scene as a
false religious leader and Israel will
embrace him in the beginning and so
anyway that's that I've taken too much
time a lot of questions that we didn't
get to and I apologize for that
we'll hit them again next week read
ahead take a study through and you'll
enjoy the study so much more when we're
together we'll jump in and pick up right
where we left off with the church in
Thyatira next Tuesday this Sunday the
book of Matthew and the Sermon on the
Mount can't wait to see you and then the
following week we're gonna be gathering
together in person again so gonna be
amazing can't wait to be back in
fellowship with you check our website
for more updates on gathering and may
the Lord richly bless you
have a great night thanks for tuning in